# BIOMD0000000347: Bachmann2011_JAK2STAT5_FeedbackControl

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000347.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000347.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This model is from the article:  
**Division of labor by dual feedback regulators controls JAK2/STAT5 signaling over broad ligand range.**   
Bachmann J, Raue A, Schilling M, Böhm ME, Kreutz C, Kaschek D, Busch H, Gretz
N, Lehmann WD, Timmer J, Klingmüller U. _Mol Syst Biol._ 2011 Jul 19;7:516.
[21772264](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21772264) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Cellular signal transduction is governed by multiple feedback mechanisms to
elicit robust cellular decisions. The specific contributions of individual
feedback regulators, however, remain unclear. Based on extensive time-resolved
data sets in primary erythroid progenitor cells, we established a dynamic
pathway model to dissect the roles of the two transcriptional negative
feedback regulators of the suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) family, CIS
and SOCS3, in JAK2/STAT5 signaling. Facilitated by the model, we calculated
the STAT5 response for experimentally unobservable Epo concentrations and
provide a quantitative link between cell survival and the integrated response
of STAT5 in the nucleus. Model predictions show that the two feedbacks CIS and
SOCS3 are most effective at different ligand concentration ranges due to their
distinct inhibitory mechanisms. This divided function of dual feedback
regulation enables control of STAT5 responses for Epo concentrations that can
vary 1000-fold in vivo. Our modeling approach reveals dose-dependent feedback
control as key property to regulate STAT5-mediated survival decisions over a
broad range of ligand concentrations.


